Learning a world model of other humans, other
human drivers.
pedestrian cyclist behaviour, gives them a
much better ability to build a driving AI,
so it absolutely makes sense.
The same idea of understanding the environment
through a lot of data so that you can better
anticipate what actions you should take also
makes sense in our robotics world, like, in
particular, robotic manipulation. In robotics,
inference cost and speed are very important. In robotics,
you need your robots to be acting all the
time.
Like that means that you have to really optimise
your AI models to give output very quickly
and so the robots can take actions continuously.
AI might be the most important new computer
technology ever.
It's storming every industry and literally
billions of dollars are being invested.
So buckle up.
The problem is that AI needs a lot of speed
and processing power.
So how do you compete without costs spiralling
out of control?
It's time to upgrade to the next generation
of the cloud: Oracle Cloud Infrastructure,
or OCI.
Oci is a single platform for your infrastructure,
database application development, and AI needs.
Oci has four to eight times the bandwidth
of other clouds, and offers one consistent
price instead of variable regional pricing.
And, of course, nobody does data better than
Oracle.
So now you can train your AI models at twice
the speed and less than half the cost of other
clouds.
If you want to do more and spend less, like
Uber, 8x8, and Databricks Mosaic, take a free
test drive of OCI at oracle.com/eyeonai
That's E-Y-E-O-N-A-I all run together.
Oracle.com/eyeonai
That's oracle.com/eyeonai
Hi, I'm Craig Smith and this is Eye on AI.
In today's episode, we delve deep into the
world of AI and robotics with Peter Chen,
co-founder and CEO of Covariant, an industrial
AI robotics company.
Peter talks about building a universal foundation
model that can operate different kinds of
industrial robots across three continents.
We also discuss the role of world models in
predicting the outcomes of actions and their
potential to generalise across various robotic
applications.
Whether it's navigating the complexities of
warehouse automation or envisioning the future
of robotics, Peter's insights are as transformative
as the technology he's helping to create.
I hope you find the conversation as engrossing
as I did.
Craig, it's great to be here.
Thank you so much for having me.
My name is Peter Chen.
I'm one of the co-founders, as well as CEO,
of Covariant, a company that is focused on
building foundation models for robotics.
A bit of a personal history about myself.
I was born and raised in China.
I got into programming and computer science
at a very young age.
It always fascinates me how much intelligence
you can get by programming software, which
is basically instructing a computer to act
intelligently, but there's always something
left.
What if the computers can learn from data?
You have to instruct every single bit of the
intelligence rule.
That's what got me into PhD.
After my undergrad at UC Berkeley, I started
my PhD in AI with Professor Pieter Abbeel at
UC Berkeley, focusing on two areas that have
both become extremely hot today.
One area is reinforcement learning, the art
of having machine learning models produce
actions. And some of these actions lead to
good consequences.
Some of these actions lead to bad consequences.
How can you have models learn from their own
mistakes and successes?
That's reinforcement learning.
Another area of my PhD focus was generative
models.
My PhD advisor and I co-created and co-taught
the first graduate level generative AI class
at Berkeley back in 2017, 2018, a long time
ago.
Obviously, we have seen how those fields have
really taken off in the last couple of years.
Those ideas that were once very academic,
cutting edge and unproven have become a much
more commonplace concept that people interact
with.
If you go to chatGPT, it is both a generative
model and a model that is aligned by reinforcement
learning.
It's amazing to see that arc of transformation
of something that was cutting edge, unproven
ideas, to something that now is everyday and
is still continuing to accelerate AI's
development.
Another bit of my personal background was
I also spent time early on at OpenAI.
I joined OpenAI fairly early.
When I started working out at OpenAI, openai
didn't even have an office.
We were working out of Greg Brockman's apartment
at the time.
Obviously, OpenAI has done amazingly well
and has really powered a lot of the AI revolution
that we are seeing today.
Maybe the thing that I want to call out that's
super interesting to me, especially as I reflect
back, is that some of the core philosophies
that OpenAI started out with are really the
same set of philosophies that are powering
the success of OpenAI that we are seeing today.
If I were to summarise the early research
philosophies at OpenAI in its first one or
two years of existence as a company,
it was this belief of a foundation model,
scaling up big models on large, diverse datasets,
this belief in generative models, using generative
models to absorb a lot of unlabeled data,
unstructured data.
Third is reinforcement learning, like the
ability to teach agents or models, the ability
to take actions in the world.
Those philosophies heavily influence me and
heavily influence what we do at Covariant
also.
It's the same driving force of what powers
OpenAI's success today.
Fast forward to how we founded Covariant.
A couple of the founders at Covariant left
OpenAI in late 2017 to start Covariant.
We started Covariant really with much of the
same thesis of what powers the current success
of the large language model.
We believe in a single model.
We believe in a single large model.
That is a foundation model, which means it's
a model that is trained on multiple types
of tasks.
It can leverage the transfer learnings across
multiple kinds of tasks and have emergent
behaviour.
It generalised to new tasks better, but also
performed better at any specific task than
a bespoke model that is only trained on that
task.
And we had an incredibly strong conviction
that this foundation model for robotics has
to be the way to go to solve robotics problems
Because, like obviously, we have seen the
success of this foundation model approach
for language. But the reason that it makes
even more sense for robotics is that there's
only one physical world, unlike in the language.
Like where you're trying to compress the whole
world of human knowledge, which includes many
things that have nothing in common with each
other, like what is the soil composition on
the moon versus how do you play chess, okay,
like both of these are knowledge that you
can find on the internet, but they have absolutely
nothing in common with each other and you're
trying to compress all these things into one
model.
But if you think about building a foundation
model for robotics like the robot could have
different bodies and the robots might be doing
different things, like it might be interacting
in different kinds of environments.
However, like all of these robots live and
operate in the same physical world, and so
it makes a lot of sense to build one foundation
model that can learn from all of these different
robot experiences and really understand physics
and understand how you control robots to move
in the world around us.
So that was a little bit of the founding story
of Covariant. And fast forward to today.
Covariant has commercialised the first robotic
foundation model that's ever built. Like, so
essentially one single model that is powering
robots working in production in customer environments
in three different continents, dozens of different
robot hardware bodies.
That same single foundation model is powering
and solving problems in a lot of different
industries.
We're starting out from warehouses, but our
long-term goal is to build this foundation
model that can solve robotic manipulation
problems in general, like across multiple
other industries.
So that's a quick introduction about myself,
where I come from, like the philosophies and
the technical ideas that have heavily influenced
us and where we have taken it so far.
Yeah, I have a couple of questions.
One, when you were doing the first course on
generative AI at Berkeley, was that in response
to the development of the transformer algorithm,
or did you integrate the transformer algorithm
into that course, Because that has really
accelerated - it is today the core of generative
AI.
Yeah, I would say Transformers was not a key
focus of that course.
So when we think about generative AI, you
can think about it as, like the two major
components of it.
So one major component is what is the model architecture?
So how is your brain structured?
So, obviously, a better brain structure can
allow you to learn better, and so a transformer
is a really flexible brain structure that
can allow you to absorb a lot of knowledge,
patterns from the data.
There's another side of how you train a generative
model.
That is like, how do you teach it?
So, even if you have a very flexible brain
structure, like, how do you actually give
that learning?
Like, think of it as the curriculum teaching methods.
So in this case, it would be the statistical
models that you use, like different versions
of it would be - the most popular one now, obviously
it's diffusion autoregressive model of next
token prediction, and then, like a little
bit earlier ago, like there will be GANs,
VAEs [Variational Autoencoders]
and these different models that are like
the statistical representation,
like the statistical representations that you impose on the world,
like which you can see as like methods of how you teach the models.
So I would say, like the initial class, focus
more on things like what are the different models that you can use,
as opposed to a more
focus on things like what is the underlying brain structure?
Like, but you can like, swap and plug in with
these kinds of things.
So, for example, the idea of diffusion like
you can implement diffusion with both convolutional new nets.
You could implement it with a transformer-based architecture and like obviously
currently the most popular one, like stable
diffusion is implemented with a combination
of convolutional neural nets as well as transformers.
You can really take the best of both worlds.
Yeah, the current -
I mean there's been a lot of talk, at least
in the literature, in the last few months
about using large models, large language models
or pre-trained transformer models, as agents.
And then, more recently you and I spoke about
this the other day - Yann LeCun and Alex Kendall
at a company called Wayve.AI are working with
world models and, you know, that learn
causality directly from sensory inputs, not
through the filter of language, and that world
model idea speaks to me because it seems much
closer to how the brain learns, initially.
In the Covariant foundational model,
can you talk about the architecture and how
it works?
I know that it's certainly proprietary, but - and then talk about these new developments with
large language models and world models and
whether you're integrating those ideas or
whether you see promise in them?
Yeah.
So those are really good questions.
Maybe we would tackle them separately, like
the idea of world models and then also the
idea of agents in the language world.
So, first of all, like this idea of learning
a world model for any kind of what we call
embodied agents makes a lot of sense, right.
Like, so, like if you, if the goal of an agent
is to understand the physical world and take
actions in it and your actions have consequences,
then you should have understanding of what
those consequences are right, as opposed to
just blindly trying things and say, oh yeah,
pushing button A is better than pushing button
B. Well, that's it.
I mean, that kind of works if you have a lot
of data, but that's kind of like a very naive
understanding of the world.
Like, if I push a lot on button A, it tends
to give me better outcome than pushing button
B. Okay, then I do pushing button A more.
That's kind of like not having a very sophisticated
understanding of the world and it's also not
very generalizable.
Like what if I like, instead of presenting
button A and B to you, I give you a keyboard
and you need to type in, like passkey, and
it does different things.
You really cannot take any of the learnings
that you get from pushing button A is better,
like if now you suddenly have a different
way of interacting in the world, and so the
idea, like the general idea of building a
world model, is can we build agents that really
understand the environment and have the ability
to anticipate what are the consequences of
the actions that it takes?
And this idea has many different incarnations,
like with how, what Alex and the team is doing
at Wayve.
A lot of it is about anticipating other agents'
behaviour.
Right, like if you drive a car, like slowly
edging into pedestrians, like most often
people would try to step away from the car
if they notice the car is approaching them.
And if they don't step away, like that means
maybe they didn't notice that the car is approaching
them.
So there's like some interesting interaction
that you can learn by anticipating other agents'
behaviour in that physical world, which is
absolutely the most core problem to solve
in self driving, is like this kind of multi
agent interaction and the behaviour that you
need to generate from there.
And so by learning a world model of other humans,
other human drivers, pedestrian, cyclist behaviour,
gives them a much better ability to build
a driving AI.
So it absolutely makes sense.
And the same idea of understanding the environment
through a lot of data so that you can better
anticipate, like, what actions you should
take also makes sense in our robotics world,
in particular, robotic manipulation.
So in our case, like the world that you're
learning is not another human being's -  what's
in another human being's mind, but it's more
like what happens to physics, like if I pick
things up in different ways, like what is
more stable, what is less stable, like if
I throw things away in a certain manner, like
where would it land if I want to carefully
put things together, and so like again, like
you have two ways that you can build this
AI.
Like one way they can build this AI is, I just
do a lot of blind, random trials and I see
what happens to work and I just keep doing
that.
Or you could actually learn a sophisticated
understanding of okay, like if I pick things
up this way, this is a pretty stable way of
grasping a certain item.
If I pick things up another way, oh wow, this
is like a very unstable, very precarious way
of picking up an item, but I can, by anticipating
what would happen in the physical world, like
it gives the AI a much better ability to act
in it.
So we are a strong believer in this idea of
a world model like, essentially, this AI that
can learn about the environment and also anticipate
what would happen to it.
And then another thing, that it's not just
more like you said, it's not just a more sensible
way for an intelligent entity to learn, because
that's more like how humans would learn.
You don't just randomly try, you anticipate,
like how things are, what would be the consequence
of the action that you take.
But, in addition to that, like those and I'm
really amazing property about world models that
we believe is under talked about and which
is this idea that if you formulate the right
world model that unified all robotic applications,
right, so like you could have like, for example,
like if you think about like a robot that
is folding laundry, as opposed to like versus
a robot that is packing a customer order in
a warehouse, like at a service level, like
there's kind of nothing in common with these
two robots.
Like robots.
Like one robot is trying to carefully think
about, okay, like how do I pick up a deformable
piece of a t- shirt and how do I flatten it
and how do I fold it?
Another robot in a warehouse would be thinking
about it.
I need to pick up the item and find where
the buckle is, and I need to scan the buckle.
Like from a policy or from an action perspective.
There's really nothing in common between these
two robots, but what is in common about them
is there's only one physical world that's
powering them right.
Like so, if you're learning a role model that
understands, if I interact with the world
in a certain way, what would happen in the
next few seconds physically.
Like that concept is universal, right, and
so like what this is like, what makes this
role model idea so powerful?
Like is it gives you this formulation, or
quite like an interface that is the same across
all robots, like, no matter what kind of tasks
they are doing, no matter what kinds of hardware
they are using.
It's the same, it's the same role model because
there's only one physical world.
Like now, suddenly you find a way to really
scale up the data that can go into training
robotic foundation models.
Like, like for all of these foundation models,
like one of the like.
Obviously you need the right model, you need
the right algorithm, but you also need a lot
of data of the right kind, right like.
So the role model actually opens up the possibility
of training a large foundation model that's
learning on a lot of data, because now you
can pull the data from many different robots
together like and like.
It doesn't matter what kind of tasks they
are doing and the environment that they're
interacting with, there's the same set of
physical principles behind them and that's
what the model can learn.
Craig Smith: 20:48
And the initial training.
That's sort of the ongoing training.
But the initial training you can simply train
from video.
Is that right that shows the laws of physics
or you know causality and that sort of thing,
and then, yeah, then there's ongoing training.
Is the network computers learning?
Yeah, so we believe video is a super important
format for this.
Like, how can you like there's just so much
data that's encoded in video, but what we
have found is that pure video is also not
sufficient.
Like, for example, like, if you just go to
YouTube and just watch a whole bunch of videos,
you only get a very partial view of the world,
like.
So they are like that.
Let me just point out like two things that
are missing in in like, the first thing that
is missing is, in a lot of the cases, you
don't really know what are the actions that
are taken, like because you're just passively
observing things and so you don't really know,
like, what are the actions that are taken.
And then the second thing is, like, in a lot
of these videos out there, you also don't
have a very detailed.
It also lacks the very small details that
are really important to robotics like.
So, for example, like what is the actual velocity
of a certain value down to a very fine degree
of precision, like?
That information is kind of hard to infer
from a video like, but if you are controlling
a full robot system like, you actually can
get it, maybe from the motor encoder, but
you can get the information in a much more
precise way.
In a lot of those, in a lot of robotics cases,
you do need a pretty precise understanding
of the world that video doesn't fully communicate
like.
So both the lack of understanding of what
are the actions that were taken in videos,
as well as the position that is required,
makes this kind of what we call videos in
the wild a useful source of data, but it's
definitely not a sufficient set of data.
And then, where do you get it?
Is that why that data is supplemented with
data from robots operating in different scenarios?
Or are there other kinds of data?
Can you use synthetic data, for example?
Yeah.
So let me maybe answer the broader question
like so, when we think about how do you build
a robotic foundation model, like a truly universal
AI that can be powering any robot hardware
to do any arbitrary things to a very high
level of autonomy?
We believe the data recipe for those three
pillars, like the first pillar, is what we
talk about.
Like essentially, data on the Internet, like
video data, image data on the Internet.
Second thing, that second thing about it is
synthetic data, like generated data that are
not made.
They may not look exactly like the real world,
but they contain useful structure about the
world that can teach the AI and you can get
lots of interesting combinations of known
factors or variations through simulation,
through this kind of synthetic data.
Like.
We believe that's very important.
But these two things like this kind of Data
in the wild on the internet and synthetic
data are both very useful learning sources,
but in our experience they are not sufficient.
Like they still lack the kind of actual Detail
interaction with the world, like understanding
cause and effects, understanding them to a
very high degree of fidelity, like those are
not present in these two datasets that we
talked about.
Like to give an example of like where the
synthetic data breakdown, it's very difficult
to simulate contact and anything that deforms,
and so those are the kind of places that like
okay, I can use in the way simulated data
to Simulate something that's rigid or maybe
doesn't involve a lot of contact, but as soon
as you involve that like your simulations,
quality or the precision of it would quickly
decrease.
So, at the end of the day, like we, what we
have found is that the third bucket of the
data that you need is robots Interacting with
objects in the real world at scale like so.
These are like the three data buckets that
Go into training, a robotic foundation, models
like so they don't on the internet, on the,
in the wild, synthetic data and then large
volume of robotics data's interacting with
the real world in production and, and this
is really the core focus of covariant.
Ever since we started the company, like, we
strongly believe in the idea that, in order
to build the best robot AI, you need to have
the most amount of robotics data that are
the highest quality like, which is why we
really focus on one Solving customer problems,
like making sure we build a technology that
is not just Interesting lab demo but it's
something that actually works reliably 24-7
in an industrial environment and the robots
are so reliable, so autonomous and deliver
as such a level of throughput that Our customers
facilities just completely depend on them.
And once you have that, like, you have Robots
out there that are generating data at an incredible
rate because, like, we're deploying these
type robots into Industrial warehouse facilities
that process amazing volume.
Like so, once you actually make these systems
generate commercial value, you can collect
Tremendous amount of data while you Generate
value for your customers.
So that's being very customer value focused,
being very production deployment focused,
is like one thing that we have really focused
on as a company.
The second thing that we really focus on as
a company is collecting the right kind of
data.
Like.
So it's not just about, oh, get the robots
out there and then, like, as they get used
24-7, a lot of data gets generated.
We also spend a lot of time thinking about,
like, what is exactly the right kind of data
that you need to collect from the fleet of
robots.
I'm out there so that you can actually enable
learning, and there is lots of deep research,
thinking and iterations that go into it, and
it's still something that we are obviously
very actively iterating on.
Yeah, and the architecture of your, of your
world, of your foundation model is?
Is it?
Is it like a JEPA architecture that Yanlacoon
talks about, where the model is encoding the
data into a higher representation space and
then operating in that space to make predictions?
Or or or is it More along the lines of, you
know, a generative, pre-trained transformer
model, where Everything's being tokenized
and you're predicting the next in a series?
Well, I guess that wouldn't be a world model,
but when you combine these things, yeah, there
are.
Peter Chen: 28:37
There are definitely different schools of
thoughts on how you represent this type of
thing.
Like one, one way to do it is like you can
say like there's some explicit Layton representation
of the world that I learned and is in that
some kind of latent description of the world
that I learned to predict, I learned causality.
There's another version of the world like,
which is, if you think about A large language
model like that, just a transformer.
Looking at all the previous words and I predict
the next word.
Like there's never an explicit Representation
of a latent structure somewhere right.
Like there's no saying, oh, I encode all of
my previous words into like some latent space
and I decode the word From it, but instead
let you just have this large structure that
looks at everything that you have seen in
an auto, aggressively predicting the next
one.
I wouldn't say I don't.
I think the jury is still out in terms of
which one will be a more likely successful
structure, and we can probably draw some Biological
inspiration, or maybe draw some inspiration
into the next word.
And we can probably draw some biological inspiration
or maybe draw some inspiration from how we
work, like and you say well, like it seems
more efficient to operate in some kind of
latent space, like because, like then, you're
operating in this, your reasoning about the
world in a more abstract way, as opposed to
looking at every single pixels and then trying
to think about, like, what should the next
pixel be?
I would say like.
Both are avenues that we look at, but we don't
believe there's like one clear winner at this
moment.
Craig Smith: 30:21
But you, you have a foundation model in operation.
So what's the, what's the, the architecture?
Can you describe how that foundation model
works, whether it's Transformer based, yeah,
just.
Peter Chen: 30:43
So I think there are really two questions
in there, like one is like what does well,
like what does role model look like?
And like what are the other parts of foundation
models like in the specific architectures
that I use there?
So the specific role model that we have, I
would say it's more similar to the latent
type of representation, like there's a more
compact, more abstract representation of the
world that's operating on and and we believe
like that likely would continue to be the
case.
Like just because, like operating in pure
pixels of images and videos, it's a pretty
wasteful representation to look at.
Like when you think about, oh, if I don't
grab something in a stable way and it drops,
like you in your head, you don't try to predict
where each pixel would go right, like you
have this high level notion of oh, something
would drop.
So we think, likely , that it will be more
successful.
But we are pretty open minded about it.
In terms of the second question of what are
the specific model architectures that are
used in Our foundation models is a pretty
wide set of architectures.
Is not a pure transformer based architecture,
like so it's not all attention blocks throughout.
Like it's a combination of, it's a combination
of convolution attention and, in some places,
more structured type of attention, like graphical
neural nets, like for specific places that
make sense.
So I would say, like the key insight there
is in robotics, inference, cost and speed
are very important.
Right, because, unlike in a maybe a different
World like, where it's okay for my like next
sentence prediction to be a little bit slow,
in robotics, like you need your robots to
be acting all the time, like that means like
you have to really optimised your models to
give output very quickly and so the robots
can take actions continuously.
And because of that, we spend a lot of work
on not just blindly following the biggest,
most expressive architecture, but really trying
to use the domain understanding that we have
about robotics and really optimising the architecture
to be more latency sensitive, like to be more
compute, budget sensitive.
Craig Smith: 33:20
And you have to adapt this model to whatever
hardware it's running on, and we talked before
about the hardware constraints in robotics.
Does the world model your foundation model?
Does it for each specific robot that it's
controlling?
The robot has a goal or a policy, and does
the model have to take into account the hardware
configuration?
Certainly, yeah.
Peter Chen: 34:07
So think about in the large language model
world it's very common to use system prompts
to configure the character, the tone or the
styles of a language agent.
In our world you would think of it as the
equivalent of prompting to basically instruct
a robotic foundation model to know, well,
what kind of hardware am I using and what
are the things that I can do with my current
hardware body.
So think of it as one base model, but then
on top of that you add configurations or prompting
that actually instruct the model on.
Okay, you're now using this kind of hardware
body and this is what you should do with it.
Craig Smith: 35:01
You've been working with this foundation model
as a world model since the founding of covariant.
Has the research moved significantly from
when you started?
From when you started?
Oh, certainly yeah.
I'm reading a lot now about LLM-based agents
and all of this world model.
I've followed Coons research and it's really
progressed a lot.
Certainly.
Peter Chen: 35:40
Yeah, there are many things that are accelerating
at a very fast rate.
One core thing is computers.
When we started six years ago, the amount
of computers that you could have access to
is very different from the amount of computers
I can have access to today.
As computer availability goes up, you can
train bigger models that have more expressivity.
And then the second thing is data scale.
When we started as a company, we had no production
customers.
Now we have robots running autonomously 24-7
on three different continents, so the data
that we can generate is just at a completely
different scale.
And then the last one is that the field has
also moved a lot very quickly.
So, if you think about a lot of the really
scaled up transformer architectures, how do
you do large scale training?
How do you do image generation by diffusion?
A lot of things have happened in the last
couple years that also enable us to build
more sophisticated foundation models and world
models, because I think the key thing to recognize
is that a lot of these ideas that we are talking
about like whether it's foundation model or
world models, they have many different levels
of potential expressivity.
So, for example, the most rudimentary form
of world model might only be able to allow
you to predict whether I have successfully
grasped a certain item or not.
That is also a world model, but it's just
a world model that's restricted to understanding
whether I have successfully grasped an item.
A much more expressive form of world model
could be well, if I have a cylindrical object
in front of me and if I push it a little bit,
it would roll around, and if it's on a slanted
surface in my rollback, that is a much more
sophisticated kind of world model compared
to a world model that is only tailor specific
to one small use case.
So I would say, because of the three forces
that have happened, like the more compute
that is available, the more data that is being
generated by our production fleet and the
AI field's advances have together allow us
to build progressively more powerful foundation
models, and part of that would be the world
model.
And these progressively more powerful models
can allow existing applications to perform
better but also open up the possibilities
for newer types of applications.
So I would say, in the world of building foundation
models for robotics, we are seeing a very
similar trend to what we are seeing in the
large language model world.
So you look at the difference between GPT-2
to GPT-3 to GPT-4.
There are remarkable differences, like as
you scale up compute data techniques and you
get greater capabilities out of it, even though
you can argue they are all the same idea of
transformer plus next token prediction.
But as you do those things, you get qualitatively
different results and it enables orders of
magnitude more applications.
Craig Smith: 38:55
Yeah, covariance robots, even though they're
different form factors, operating controlled
environments, relatively controlled environments,
and the degree of randomness or unpredictable
ability is within a fairly narrow margin.
How long do you think before a world model
controlling a robot or a foundation model
wouldn't only be a world model that can really
operate in a real-world environment, unstructured,
uncontrolled?
Peter Chen: 39:40
It's a really good question.
I wouldn't call the current environment fully
structured, like the robots, like where the
robots are operating in.
If you think about all the objects that we
see and manipulate in our day-to-day life,
they go through a warehouse at some point.
If the covariant brain-powered, what we call
our foundation model, the covariant brain-powered
robots operating in all warehouses, it's building
a pretty sophisticated understanding of how
you manipulate things, even in the fully unstructured
world.
I think maybe the question is getting more
at when we can have robots that move around
and are fully in the wild, as opposed to in
confined space in industrial processes that
are high volume?
I think that mostly is going to become a hardware
question as opposed to an AI question.
I actually believe hardware is going to be
the long pole in the tent, as opposed to whether
you can build the AI layer that can navigate
in a less structured world freely.
There are a lot of companies and efforts working
on this, like humanoid robots, maybe humanoid
with wheels, maybe humanoid with legs or maybe
different kinds of form factors that actually
allow you to navigate freely in space and
also do useful things with it.
I think there are a lot of interesting hardware
problems to be solved there.
Craig Smith: 41:19
Yeah, on the warehouse, for example, on the
hardware side, we were talking about `Wave
AI.
The car is a robot and it's well refined.
How long do you think before world models
can be applied to autonomous vehicles with
such success and stability that we can use
them on the roads today?
Or is that really a regulatory issue?
Peter Chen: 42:03
I think this question is much better answered
by the self-driving car experts.
Craig Smith: 42:11
Let me ask a warehouse question.
I know we're coming up to the end of the hour.
I remember when I first met you guys and we
were talking about the advantage of automated
warehouses.
One thing that fascinated me is, as you said,
they operate 24-7.
They can operate in low light environments.
They don't need the air quality that humans
need.
I mean, do you have a vision for and, as you
said, almost every object that we touch has
come through a warehouse do you have a vision
for warehouses of the future that maybe will
be these vast underground spaces where robots
are working tirelessly in the dark and a human
only has to go down periodically when there's
some glitch or some hardware problem?
Peter Chen: 43:22
I think it's going to be more of a continuum.
It's not going to be fully light-soul.
What is the extreme of that?
The extreme of that is, you can think about
the whole moon being colonised by robots.
There's no human being on it, but there's
a space factory there that keeps pumping out
goods and they get sent to the earth autonomously.
That's one end of the extreme.
It truly lights out no human touch point.
I think that's pretty far away.
Ultimately we will get there, but what we
believe is more gradual adoption and you can
already start adopting this type of technology
today.
For a long time this form of technology would
be adopted in the form of human augmentation.
I have to stand there and pump out 500 units
of goods a day.
I can now supervise 10 robots that are producing
5,000, 6,000, 7,000 units of goods.
Today I have a much more engaging job of overseeing
10 robots and looking at where they get stuck.
How can I arrange the upstream goods coming
in, organise it in a way that allows me to
get more output out of this fleet of robots,
and figuring out how can I unblock the robots
as quickly as possible as opposed to just
doing the same motion again and again like
8 hours a day.
This form of augmentation we see as a way
to solve the labour challenges that our customers
have.
It allows them to do much more with a much
smaller pool of labour, as well as have a
much better human experience for people that
are working in this vitally important societal
infrastructure.
Now you actually have a job that is a lot
more fun, engaging and also way more productive
than before.
Over time, as the technology becomes better,
you can see that ratio chips improving.
Maybe now it's like one person overseeing
a fleet of 10 robots.
In the future it would be 50, 100.
At some point you would have a whole factory
of robots and maybe just one person working
around in it.
Maybe at some point in the future we would
get to that oh, there's like 2 billion space
factories on the moon and no one needs to
touch that.
Craig Smith: 45:51
Yeah, okay.
Well, let me ask one more question, because
when we first were talking during the pandemic,
there was a lot I don't know whether it was
you or one of your partners I had asked whether
robots could operate a chicken processing
factory.
I mean, certainly there is some automation
there, but there was so much death from COVID
on these production lines, but the hardware
wasn't versatile enough at that point to be
able to deal with something as soft and floppy
as a chicken carcass.
Is that?
Are we on the road to that?
And then my final, final question is do you
feel you talked about a continuum?
Are we close to a step change in robotics
or are we still on just a pretty steady incline?
Peter Chen: 47:10
So I don't actually have context on the chicken
processing question, so I would maybe not
answer that specifically.
But on the idea of making progress on manipulating
more dexterous objects, like deformable objects,
in a more dexterous way, the answer is definitely
yes.
So when we look at our systems and the capabilities
that they have, it's definitely understanding
the physical world in a more and more nuanced
way and in a more and more expressive way,
and so, like we're on a way there.
And then, in terms of the questions of whether
we see a step change in robotics, I will say
the most honest answer is we don't fully know.
Like there are some forces that are working
for it and then there are some forces that
are working against it.
So let me tell you the forces that are working
for the huge inflection acceleration, the
forces that are working for it is we are getting
to the point that you can really scale up
compute and data to train really large robotic
foundation models, and we have seen this kind
of step change, like this phase transition
of capabilities in the language world as you
scale to a certain size of model, compute
and data, and we expect the same thing to
happen, right, like we expect, like the foundation
models that power these robots to get significantly
smarter, to get significantly more general.
Like I mean, I cannot comment on what would
happen outside of covariant, but at least
at covariant, like we are seeing that coming.
Like how do you scale up data compute model
size significantly to get a much smarter model?
The forces that are working against it is
the adoption still needs to go through hardware
and it still needs to go through an enterprise
adoption process Like this is not like chat
GBT, that you can like largely turn on the
faucet and or maybe not turn on the faucet
but like go to a website and then you can
use it Like so like the adoption process would
be slower, but I would say in terms of the
capability leapfrog, like we think we are
very close to a very clear phase transition.
Craig Smith: 49:28
AI might be the most important new computer
technology ever.
It's storming every industry and literally
billions of dollars are being invested, so
buckle up.
The problem is that AI needs a lot of speed
and processing power.
So how do you compete without cost spiralling
out of control?
It's time to upgrade to the next generation
of the cloud Oracle Cloud Infrastructure,
or OCI.
OCI is a single platform for your infrastructure,
database application development and AI needs.
Oci has four to eight times the bandwidth
of other clouds, and offers one consistent
price instead of variable regional pricing.
And, of course, nobody does data better than
Oracle.
So now you can train your AI models at twice
the speed and less than half the cost of other
clouds.
If you want to do more and spend less, like
Uber, 8x8, and Databricks Mosaic,
take a free test drive of OCI at oracle.com/eyeonai
That's E-Y-E-O-N-A-I all run together with
Oracle.com/eyeonai
That's oracle.com/eyeonai
That's it for this episode.
I want to thank Peter for his time.
If you want to read a transcript of the conversation
today, you can find one on our website eye-on.ai
And remember the Singularity may not be near,
but AI is already changing your world, so
pay attention.